.\"
.\" ggcov - A GTK frontend for exploring gcov coverage data
.\" Copyright (c) 2015-2020 Greg Banks <gnb@fastmail.fm>
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH GGCOV-WEBDB "1" "May 2005" "GGCOV" "Greg Banks"
.SH NAME
ggcov\-webdb \- generate intermediate database for ggcov web interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBggcov\-webdb\fP [[\fB\-r\fP] \fIdirectory\fP|\fIfile\fP] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBGgcov\-webdb\fP generates an intermediate database and tree of
source files from a development directory, in the form of a tarball.
The files in this tarball are later used by the \fBggcov\fP PHP pages
to present test coverage data to WWW browsers.
.PP
Test coverage data is produced by C and C++ programs compiled
with \fIgcc \-fprofile-arcs \-ftest-coverage\fP.  So the combination
of \fBggcov\-webdb\fP and the \fBggcov\fP PHP pages is basically a WWW
replacement for the \fBgcov\fP program that comes with \fBgcc\fP.
.PP
The intermediate database approach is used to handle the common
case where the development machine and the web server machine are
separate.  The database contains coverage data in an indexed,
platform\-independent, PHP\-friendly form.  Because the database
format is platform\-independant the PHP pages can be deployed on
web servers of a different architecture to the development machines.
In fact the \fBggcov\fP web pages support any web server that meets
the following criteria:
.TP
\(bu
supports PHP version 4.3 or later, and
.TP
\(bu
provides the \fBdba\fP extension with the \fBdb4\fP provider (which
\fBggcov\fP uses to read the intermediate database), and
.TP
\(bu
provides the \fBgd\fP extension (which \fBggcov\fP uses to generate
the bargraphs on the Summary page).
.PP
The \fIsourceforge.net\fP project web server is an example of
such a server.
.PP
\fBGgcov-webdb\fP produces a gzipped tarball containing the
intermediate database itself and copies of all the source files
which are mentioned in the database.  This is all the information
that the \fBggcov\fP web pages need, in one bundle which is
convenient to copy from the development machine to the web server.
Usually this tarball would be extracted into a subdirectory
of \fI/var/cache/ggcov/tests/\fP on the web server.
.PP
Arguments are used to specify how to find coverage data files.
The arguments can combinations of:
.IP \fIdirectory\fP
The directory is scanned for source files, which are handled as if they
had been specified on the commandline (except that missing coverage
data files are silently ignored).  If the \fB\-r\fP flag is in effect,
sub\-directories are scanned recursively.  Multiple directories can
be specified and are scanned in the order given.
.IP \fIexecutable\fP
The executable file is scanned for debugging records which contain
source file names, and each source file which exists is handled as if
it had been specified on the command line (except that missing coverage
data files are silently ignored).  Any shared libraries on which the
executable depends are also scanned.  Multiple executables can
be specified and are scanned in the order given.  This feature is
only available on some platforms (for example, i386\-linux).
.IP \fIsource-file\fP
Is any regular file ending in one of the file extensions \fI.c\fP,
\fI.cc\fP, \fI.cxx\fP, \fI.cpp\fP, or \fI.C\fP.  Source files are
matched to their corresponding coverage data files (\fI.gcno\fP and
\fI.gcda\fP files, or \fI.bb\fP, \fI.bbg\fP, and \fI.da\fP files with
older compilers) and object files by searching for a file of the same
basename and the appropriate extension first in the same directory
as the source file and then in all the directories specified on the
command line (in the order they were specified).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fItest.tgz\fP, \fB\-\-output\-file\fP=\fItest.tgz\fP
Generate output to filename \fItest.tgz\fP instead of the
default \fBggcov.webdb.tgz\fP.  The special filename \fB-\fP can
be used to generate output to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIdir\fP, \fB\-\-object\-directory\fP=\fIdir\fP
Add the directory \fIdir\fP to the search path for object
files and coverage data files.
.TP
\fB\-r\fP, \fB\-\-recursive\fP
When a directory is specified on the command line, search for
coverage data files recursively in all child directories.
.TP
\fB\-X\fP \fIsymbols\fP, \fB\-\-suppress\-ifdef=\fP\fIsymbols\fP
Suppress code inside C pre-processor directives which depend on
any of the given \fIsymbols\fP.  Suppressed code is not included
in statistics or summaries.  One or
more symbols may be given, separated by commas or whitespace.  \fBGgcov\-webdb\fP
understands the following subset of the C pre-processor command set:
.IP
\(bu \fI#if SYMBOL\fP
.br
\(bu \fI#if defined(SYMBOL)\fP
.br
\(bu \fI#ifdef SYMBOL\fP
.br
\(bu \fI#ifndef SYMBOL\fP
.br
\(bu \fI#else\fP
.br
\(bu \fI#endif\fP
.br
.IP
For example, \fB-X DEBUG\fP will suppress the \fIfprintf()\fP call in this code:
.IP
.nf
unsigned int
my_function(unsigned int x)
{
    x += 42;
#ifdef DEBUG
    fprintf(stderr, "my_function: x=%u\\n", x);
#endif
    return x;
}
.fi
.IP
This option is useful for suppressing test infrastructure code, debugging
code, or other code which is compiled into the coverage test executable
but whose coverage is not significant.

.TP
\fB\-Y\fP \fIwords\fP, \fB\-\-suppress\-comment=\fP\fIwords\fP
Suppress code on lines which also contain a single-line comment
comprising only one of the given \fIwords\fP.  Suppressed code is
not included in statistics or summaries.  One or more symbols may be
given, separated by commas or whitespace.  For example,
specifying \fB-Y IGNOREME\fP will suppress the \fIassert()\fP in this code:
.IP
.nf
unsigned int
my_function(unsigned int x)
{
    x += 42;
    assert(x >= 42);   /* IGNOREME */
    return x;
}
.fi
.IP
This option is useful for suppressing test infrastructure code, debugging
code, or other code which is compiled into the coverage test executable
but whose coverage is not significant.

.TP
\fB\-Z\fP \fIstartword,endword,...\fP \fB\-\-suppress\-comment-between=\fP\fIstartword,endword,...\fP
Suppress code on lines between those containing a single-line comment
comprising only \fIstartword\fP and the next single-line comment comprising
only \fIendword\fP.  Suppressed code is not included in statistics or summaries.
Two or more symbols may be given, in pairs, separated by commas or
whitespace.  For example, \fB-Z STARTIGNORE,ENDIGNORE\fP
will suppress the entire function in this code:
.IP
.nf
/* STARTIGNORE */
unsigned int
my_function(unsigned int x)
{
    x += 42;
    return x;
}
// ENDIGNORE
.fi
.IP
This option is useful for suppressing test infrastructure code, debugging
code, or other code which is compiled into the coverage test executable
but whose coverage is not significant.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Generate intermediate database for all the available source
in the executable \fBa.out\fP (on some platforms only), and
install as test \fBfoo\fP in the default tests location.
.IP
.B mkdir /var/cache/ggcov/tests/foo
.br
.B ggcov\-webdb -f - a.out |
.br
.B "    " (cd /var/cache/ggcov/tests/foo ; tar \-xzf \- )
.br
.PP
Generate intermediate database for all the C source in the current directory.
.IP
.B ggcov\-webdb *.c
.PP
Generate intermediate database for all the C source in one directory where the
object files and test coverage data files are in different directories:
.IP
.B ggcov\-webdb /foo/obj/ /foo/cov\-data/ /foo/src/
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Greg Banks
.IR <gnb@fastmail.fm> .
.SH COPYRIGHT
ggcov is Copyright \(co 2001\-2020 Greg Banks \fI<gnb@fastmail.fm>\fP.
.br
This is free software; see the COPYING file for copying conditions.  There
is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
