.\"
.\" ggcov - A GTK frontend for exploring gcov coverage data
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2015 Greg Banks <gnb@fastmail.fm>
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\" 
.TH GIT-HISTORY-COVERAGE "1" "Feb 2011" "GGCOV" "Greg Banks"
.SH NAME
git-history-coverage \- summarise test coverage for recent git commits
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgit-history-coverage\fP [\fIoptions\fP] 
\fIrev-list\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBGit-history-coverage\fP extracts test coverage data produced by
C and C++ programs compiled with \fIgcc \-\-coverage\fP, and correlates
it to git commits, printing a coverage summary which shows
how well tested recent code changes have been.  This is useful
for nightly builds and Continuous Integration systems such as Jenkins.
.PP
For the output of \fBgit-history-coverage\fP to make any sense, the
coverage data must be generated by running code which corresponds to
the last commit in the range specified by \fIrev-list\fP.
.PP
When used without any options, \fBgit-history-coverage\fP prints three
summaries.
.TP
.B overall
A summary of all the commits specified by \fIrev-list\fP.
.TP
.B by author
A summary split up by each author represented in
the set of commits specified by \fIrev-list\fP.
.TP
.B by commit
A summary for each individual commit in
the set of commits specified by \fIrev-list\fP.
.PP
For each of these summaries, \fBgit-history-coverage\fP prints
statistics showing how many lines of code were in the commits,
how many lines represent executable code (as opposed to comments,
test code, or infrastructure like Makefiles), and how many
lines were actually executed in tests.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-summary\-overall\fP
Print the \fBoverall\fP summary (with no options, all three
summaries are printed).
.TP
\fB\-\-summary\-by\-author\fP
Print the \fBby author\fP summary (with no options, all three
summaries are printed).
.TP
\fB\-\-summary\-by\-commit\fP
Print the \fBby commit\fP summary (with no options, all three
summaries are printed).
.TP
\fB\-\-gcda\-prefix\fP=\fIdir\fP
Look for \fI.gcda\fP files underneath the directory \fIdir\fP.  This
option is used to read runtime coverage information written when a test
program is run using the same \fP--gcda-prefix\fP option to
\fBggcov-run\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Greg Banks
.IR <gnb@fastmail.fm> .
.SH COPYRIGHT
ggcov is Copyright \(co 2001\-2015 Greg Banks \fI<gnb@fastmail.fm>\fP.
.br
This is free software; see the COPYING file for copying conditions.  There
is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBggcov-run\fP(1).
